Let's go to the final exercise for
this notebook.
So the final exercise is
we are going to actually
think this is pretty cool and
so we are going to write
We're going to update our film flowers
such that when we click on any of these,
and our film flowers
are going to animate and
they're going to update and
animate accordingly.
So actually, you can't quite see
the animation right now because they're so
far down.
So let me bring it up here so
that you can see it.
So as we kind of filter around.
Our film flowers animate in or
animate out.
So we can filter, maybe we only
wanna see the PG 13 films and
then so we filter down by this.
And then, maybe we're only curious
about the action films and
so we filter everything else out.
And that's what it looks like, so
I think hopefully,
it will be quite a fun exercise.
And in terms of like practical
application, I actually think this and
filtering I'm is very much
very kind of practical
in our data visualizations
because that means,
and you probably won't have flowers in
your data visualizations or charts.
And but if you imagine these
as like a line chart or
you would have a scatterplot or
maybe even something more exotic, but
whatever your visualization is being
able to handle these sort of filtering.
Will really help with whatever data
exploration tool you're trying
to provide or maybe some,
whatever story you're trying to tell.
And so
to be able to do this and we're going
to do the exercise in two parts.
The first part being that we're
going to use the new way with join
to update all of our flowers every
time the movies are filtered, and
in the second is that once we have that
will break off into that exercise.
And then we'll come back and
we'll do part two where we add animations.
So that on every update you see
the flowers fading in when they're
entering and moving to their new
positions when they're updating and
fading out if they're an exiting.
And a few notes about some of the things
that are happening within the observable
notebook outside of the scope of the cell
that we're going to be working in,
but important to know.
So let me bring this back.
And so this is the cell we'll be working
in and we'll have our code here.
But I wanted to show you some of
the things that are happening.
So every time we click on
one of these checkboxes,
I have this filter function running and
this one says to only keep the movies that
we have the genres checked for,
and the Parental Guidance Rating
is checked for.
So this is what this
big function is doing.
And I am as of right now with these
filters we have 109 of the movies and
a 135.
If we do that, we have 34 of the movies.
And then here we're saying okay and
then take that set of filtered movies and
run that through our function,
the function that we
created to calculate all of
our flowers using scales.
And so
then we get the corresponding kind of,
array objects for drawing our flowers.
And then finally we're going
to use that filteredFlowers
array in our cell when
we're creating our flowers.
And I'm not sure if I explained this
before, but there's a lot of heavy
lifting that observable is doing for
us to make this filtering work.
And primarily that it is reactive and
in that each of these cells
are dependent on these cells every
time these cells change,
these cells update.
So here for our exercise is also
dependent on the filteredFlowers,
so every time filteredFlowers update and
our cell reruns.
And if anytime this dependency
chain confuses you,
and then you can take a look here and
it shows you the current
cell that you're in and
all of the things that it's
dependent on or is dependent on it.
So I wanted to mention that and
before you get started on the exercise and
because I wanted to put that little
bit into say that if we were to
implement this ourselves, I'm in maybe
like a separate index HTML file.
And it's going to take a little bit
more work to hook it up together and
it's outside of the scope
of this workshop.
And, but because we're in
observable we get to do this.
So, and that I'm mentioning because
at the very end of this workshop,
we'll figure we'll kind of translate
everything that we've been doing in
observable notebooks into an index
HTML file, so that you can see how,
that might work if you want to,
create a web page but that.
And so this is the disclaimer to say that
when we do that, we won't be able to
do kind of this filtering update, and but
we'll do everything up until this point.
>> Since exit and enter correspond
to different rec elements.
Shouldn't the order of
execution the irrelevant?
>> Yes, so,
the order of execution is irrelevant when
it is simply a rectangle elements and
there's nothing nested in there.
But, it was that I had
worked out this logic a long time ago,
and I can't quite remember it anymore.
But I think there's a few edge
cases where the order does matter,
like what gets removed.
And I think that edge case was if
you have like group elements and
then things within those group
elements but I can't quite remember.
And so that one is a gentle suggestion
of having it in that order and
you can certainly do
it in other orders and
I just can't remember exactly
the bugs that come up.
But I do feel like there are bugs I
came up and that's why I have this like,
best practice for
myself because I run into the bugs and
I've wiped the bugs from memory,
but just remember the lesson.
[LAUGH] Yeah so,
that was a great question.
>> Then do you have any advice for
D3 and react?
>> Yes, okay, so I was going to mention
this briefly at the end of our workshop,
but I do have another workshop
on front end masters.
And that is a very gentle introduction
to D3 for react developers.
And for that one, and
we cover there's some overlap
in the materials that we cover.
But I do talk a lot more about how
you can use react and D3 together.
And so the short answer is
check that workshop out and
maybe you can skip around the parts
that we've already covered here.
And but yes, you can definitely
use react and D3 together and
it does fight each other a little bit and
I think I cover that in the workshop also.
And I'll have a little
bit of bonus content for
this workshop at the very end, where I
talk about using Vue and D3 together.
And because I actually haven't
used react with D3, and
like two years,
because I started picking up Vue.
And I find that with Vue it plays
with D3 a lot more nicely.
And it makes much more sense for
the data visualizations I build because
Vue has a lot of the same reactivity
that we've been seeing in these
observable notebooks built in.
So it makes kind of data updates and
user interaction that manipulates
data updates really much simpler.
And I view also treats animations
as a first class citizen and
has a lot of really good built in support
for it which is really important for.
When I'm making visualizations, and
so that's why I tend to prefer Vue.
And again, the disclaimer is that I
haven't used react in about two years.
So maybe there's a lot of things
that have updated since then and
have made it much friendlier to use for
with D3 and data visualization.